this is early in the morning before the
Sun rises in the Canadian winter the
clip I'm about to play for you may seem
like it goes on forever it's only one
minute in 20 seconds long then I'll have
a brief wrap-up after asking I don't
know what's the future of vegan activism
given I don't know yet another funny
little insight into the absurdity of DXE
of the state of our leadership the state
of our followership in general and did
you go vegan instantly after that was it
like immediate when you were there on
the set wow you just couldn't take the
idea of eating those little animals yeah
I was doing yeah yeah
dance yeah good
and I can't get the protein
checking it's hard but when you travel
ya know that make sense other words your
pediatr
sure
do enough so the doodle
the only thing for the work is yeah yeah
I knew Moby who is an incredible
musician I didn't realize how devious
he's extremely smart yeah yeah yeah
there's any by the protest if you were
joined by small farmers of course yeah
didn't want
Thank You fires to happen yeah that's
basically it
they're Marchesa so I couldn't afford
interesting to be with this yeah an
Eightball
Oh Jess you have to do this so real
farmers don't agree with this system one
general statement
we've lately had a number of ex vegans I
don't know vegan detractors and
dissenters and the movement complaining
that somehow what's wrong with veganism
is nitpicking that somehow what's wrong
with veganism is people who are 100%
vegan criticizing those who are only 98
percent vegan and one of the arguments
in real life face-to-face is people I'm
making response to that is you know what
you call nitpicking very often in
practice in real life is educational
maybe for you watching this video when
was the first time you learned about the
chemical called l-cysteine I can
remember a time when I didn't know what
it was and I'd never heard of it and I
didn't realize it was a food ingredient
that was non vegan so if somebody
doesn't take me aside and let me know
hey look you think these bagels are
vegan they're actually made with
l-cysteine guess what l-cysteine is made
of pork hog hair pig hair well if you
don't know that you're not gonna make
that choice now there are people on the
internet who basically freak out and say
oh you're nitpicking over every little
thing well one thing at a time how do
you expect you know our culture or our
industries of food production to ever
disentangle from factory farming if we
don't step-by-step blow-by-blow address
ingredients like l-cysteine if we don't
recognize there's a difference between
vegan bread and non vegan bread and for
most of us living in a crowded society
living in a big city it really is as
easy as not buying this bagel buying a
different bagel instead and again many
people don't realize bagels the majority
of bagels are made with honey so honey
l-cysteine one little tidbit of
information at a time vegan - vegan I
think we do exchange information I think
almost all of us especially in the early
days of being vegan when I came to trace
ingredients invisible ingredients things
we didn't know we're around we relied on
and we benefited from other vegans
nitpicking us to some extent I've
already made videos saying in a world
that's 0% vegan it is basically
impossible to be how to present
and there are a few things I own that I
know are not vegan but I mean it can
literally be the glue that binds your
books together I used to work in the
publishing industry the glue that is in
the spine of books in most cases not
vegan I'm not gonna stop reading books
so we all live with these kinds of
contradictions and examples but
fundamentally veganism is about doing
the best you can and part of what we've
got to do positively is share the
information people need so that they can
make the informed choices and they can
do the best they can it is somewhat
hilarious paradoxical and hypocritical
to see Wayne Siong and yes his name is
song not Chung and not Shang Waits young
um sitting down with and agreeing with
and encouraging this celebrity when he
says that he wears leather shoes that he
eats chicken eggs he specifically says
that his reason for eating chicken eggs
is that he can't get enough protein and
that if he didn't eat chicken eggs he'd
have a terrible diet terrible and
healthy diet go back and rewatch he
doesn't speak very clearly it so I added
subtitles but that's what he's saying
and he also makes some kind of vague
complaint about how difficult it is to
travel when you're vegan yeah it's
difficult to travel in Antarctica it's
difficult to travel in Cambodia if you
don't speak Cambodian I've had to deal
with language barriers as a vegan
traveling all over the world you know
most recently guys know I was living in
Yunnan China everywhere I went every day
explained to people in Chinese that I'm
vegan cope with the language barrier
cope with the cultural barrier find
whatever the vegan options are including
especially things like bread figure out
whether or not bread is vegan definitely
a big deal in China but you do it you do
it because it's the right thing to and
if you're a wealthy white
english-speaking person who lives in
California who also happens to be a
celebrity and some kind of part-time
vegan activist it behooves you to take
that step and to actually be vegan to
actually meet the bare minimum
requirements of a vegan diet which
includes not wearing leather shoes and
not eating chicken eggs and not saying
that it's
possible to get enough protein if you
didn't need chicken eggs you hypocrite
he follows up this statement by saying
he does just enough so that he doesn't
feel like a hypocrite well whether or
not you feel like a hypocrite I got bad
news for you you are a hypocrite and no
if I was there with him in person face
to face I would not say to him that he's
a hypocrite and I would also not say
what Wayne says shockingly Wayne agrees
with that Wayne says yeah makes sense
we've got that on tape you can go back
and watch it again super non conformist
confrontational activist extraordinaire
Wayne C on agreeing that it makes sense
for this celebrity to eat chicken eggs
and wear leather shoes apparently that
daddy doesn't agree with us clearly in
the tape to be fair um we also get a
somewhat confused and garbled statement
from him that's from this celebrity
representative that you know retired
former actor or however you want to
describe them we get a somewhat garbled
and Confused statement that there are
good farmers and there are bad farmers
that somehow the real farmers the
ethical and moral farmers who are
killing animals in producing meat that
they disagree with factory farming
because it's abhorrent and again any
abolitionist then he's serious vegan
your hair stands on end when you hear
that kind of thing because it really
sounds like it's setting the basis for
quote unquote happy meat for organic
free-range meat meat produced locally by
small family farmers to be justified or
excused so these are three different
issues on which Wayne could have
educated the guy in the same way that I
just said I once relied on other vegans
to tell me oh guess what this toothpaste
has some kind of ingredient in it that's
not vegan you've never even heard of it
and when you read the label in English
you can't even tell it's not vegan
this bagel this bread the glue in your
books whatever it is bit by bit we gain
this kind of knowledge and appreciation
we start to make strategic choices that
make sense for us as vegans it would not
be nitpicking it would not be
inappropriate at all if Wayne's young
instead of saying yeah good that makes
sense
if instead he said no look I've got to
tell you it doesn't make sense
that's not a compromise any vegan
ethically could put up with I know you
say that the chickens are happy I know
you say that the eggs come from a good
home
this kind of thing but you've got to
know eggs are terrible for your health
they're terrible for the environment
they're not ecologically responsive
responsible it's not ethically
justifiable and for someone in your
position for someone who's not merely
silent Veeck in the background it sounds
like you very fundamentally don't
understand what the word vegan means and
what it entails there's a nice way to
say it and there's a rude way to say it
you could you can just tell them he's a
hypocrite
you can tell what he's doing is totally
unethical you can talk him through step
by step the reality of where eggs come
from now they're produced even in
so-called free-range happy you know what
have you you can you can talk about the
cholesterol content of eggs and what the
nutritional value of eggs is and other
sources of protein in the vegan diet
sounds like this guy needs an education
on how to have a balanced diet while
traveling around California or whatever
he's doing it sounds like you need some
education on how to get a pair of
non-leather vegan shoes to sensor
there's a lot of guidance and
encouragement and information that could
have been exchanged here and instead
Wayne shares none of it and why is that
this is really the most important part
of the video it's because Wayne's Young
has become a Fame [ __ ] direct action
everywhere DXE has become peda
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals there's now no difference
between DXE and petaa none zero
pedda was created I their main mo is
going around and selling out to any
celebrity who will do a photo op with
them any celebrity who will possibly get
them a newspaper headline and I remember
an example that but this is not a unique
example there were dozens of examples
like this but there was one example
where they had an actress doing an anti
Fuhrer event with them it was one of the
actresses who was in the x-men movie so
like Laz is so obvious there was a sexy
actress you know photo op and she was
wearing like thigh high leather boots
she was wearing really maybe the up
sorry misremember she was
very high leather boots and one of the
journalists it shows that the
journalists in Los Angeles are now hip
to this sort of thing said well look how
can you be doing a pet event how can be
doing some kind of animal rights event
or a t-4 event wearing leather boots but
the peda representative stepped over to
the microphone said you know this isn't
a leather event it's okay this but this
specific event is an opposing low you
know pedda will do this and direct
action everywhere you can see this from
wayne strong he's recorded more Long's
talking about what they're all about now
is exactly the same kind of photo-op
ambulance-chasing headline chasing
newspaper chasing famewhoring just the
pursuit of fame for the sake of fame and
notoriety he was so proud of himself
that they did this event this protest of
having a young woman covered in poo
covered in animal excrement covered in
manure however you want to put it and
they were so pleased themselves that
they managed to get some newspaper
headlines this is Penna this is People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
this is what peda has already been doing
for decades and this is everything
direct action everywhere swore they were
better than when they were founded they
swore they weren't gonna just be Fame
[ __ ] they swore they weren't gonna
just chase headlines they swore that
they were gonna learn the lessons of
history that we're gonna do this
marvelous research and take the
conclusions from socials the social
sciences from social science research
and they were going to pursue effective
activism like never before they were
going to be more uncompromising than
anyone ever before they were gonna
pursue this the you know abolitionist
fantasy and guys this is what it all
comes down to this is how the cookie
crumbles this is what's left of Wayne's
Young's ridiculous dream all I gotta say
to you is don't be a part of it if you
want to know more about what's wrong
with DXE past present and future there's
a link to a playlist below this video
there's also a link to a channel called
the phlegm face le fleming that's her
nickname goes off the phlegm face thanks
to her I would not have made this video
without her encouragement you can click
on that there
[Music]
the future of the vegan movement is you
dad
[Music]